# Usage in XEmacs
## Introduction

This is a very crude hack to use yasnippets on XEmacs. It was developed
in the experimental version of XEmacs 21.5

## Usage
The way it is used is different to the *regular* install. Most of it
being a hack, I should be able to refine it as I learn how it was
developed.

*  Add the location of your yasnippet distribution in your load path.

    (add-to-list 'load-path "~/.xemacs/yasnippet")
    (require 'yasnippet)

*  Configure the trigger key and load the snippets on custom.el

    (setq yas/trigger-key " y"))
    (setq yas/snippet-dirs '("~/.xemacs/yasnippet/snippets" "~/.xemacs/snippets/"))
    (dolist (snipdir yas/snippet-dirs)
      (yas/load-directory snipdir t))

*  Add hooks to those modes that you want to use yasnippets

     (setq yas-mode-list '(c-mode-hook
                      emacs-lisp-mode-hook))
     (dolist (mode-item yas-mode-list)
        (add-hook mode-item
              'yas/minor-mode-on
              'append))


* Add highlights
  There is a reasonable default highlight color. But if you want to
  change them, you can add the following in your custom.el.

     (set-face-foreground 
         'yas/field-highlight-face "black") 
     (set-face-background 
         'yas/field-highlight-face "white") 


## Usage 

Usage is different being that there are right now a lot of
limitations. Being that overlays work differently in XEmacs, for now
field values are entered in the mminibuffer. It will do the
substitution, but it will not be as nice as gnu emacs. This should
change, but for now it provides the functionality that I'm looking for.